Update monorepo documentation (#32137)
Automattic/wp-calypso: docs/monorepo.md

# Publishing with the Monorepo

Calypso is a monorepo. In addition to the Calypso application, it also hosts a number of independent modules that are published to NPM.

## Module Layout

These modules live under the `packages` and `apps` directories, one folder per module.

Two different directories for modules are:

`/packages` — projects and libraries that we use in Calypso but also might publish as independent outputs or packages.

> `/apps` — projects that we _do not_ use directly in Calypso and publish as independent outputs or packages.

Reviewer: The distinction I had in mind was more that stuff in packages represented packages we would publish to npm, and usage in Calypso didn't really matter (though if they're not used in Calypso, why are they here at all?) Stuff in "apps" was for the stuff that represented an "app", so something that produced something like a tarball that you could install by hand elsewhere. Though I guess there's no reason it couldn't also be published to npm...

Author: Thanks for elaborating, very helpful! Updated: https://github.com/Automattic/wp-calypso/pull/32137/commits/208ed7ddfe657f75dcd7f144f95e0f79f9097b1c

`npm run test-packages [ test file pattern ]`

## Building packages

> Packages are automatically build on `npm start` unless they're in `/apps` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Packages will have their `prepare` scripts run automatically on `npm install`.

Independent apps can use `build` instead of `prepare` so avoid unnecessary builds on `npm install`.
```

`npm run test-packages [ test file pattern ]`

## Building packages & apps

Packages will have their `prepare` scripts run automatically on `npm install`.

Independent apps in `/apps` directory use `build` instead of `prepare` so avoid unnecessary builds on `npm install`.

You can build packages also by running:

```bash
npm run build-packages
```

Or even specific packages:

```bash
npx lerna run prepare --scope="@automattic/calypso-build"
```

Or specific apps:

```bash
npx lerna run build --scope="@automattic/calypso-build"
```

> 

Author: Not sure if I should highlight `prepare`/`build` difference here and if I should explain why it exists?

Reviewer 3: There is already something trying to clarifying that a few lines above: 

> Independent apps in `/apps` directory use `build` instead of `prepare` so avoid unnecessary builds on `npm install`.

But yeah, +1 to extend that and explain the differences between the 2 commands.

Author: Thanks, elaborated more in https://github.com/Automattic/wp-calypso/pull/32137/commits/69fbf250af639c58544b5aa7dc0e8e9465ea066f

## Building packages & apps

Packages will have their `prepare` scripts run automatically on `npm install`.

You can build packages also by running:

```bash
npm run build-packages
```

Or even specific packages:

```bash
npx lerna run prepare --scope="@automattic/calypso-build"
```

Or specific apps:

```bash
npx lerna run build --scope="@automattic/calypso-build"
```

All `prepare` scripts found in all `package.json`s of apps and packages are always run on Calypso's `npm install`. Therefore independent apps in `/apps` directory can use `build` instead of `prepare` so avoid unnecessary builds.

You can also run other custom `package.json` scripts only for your app or package:
```bash
npx lerna run your-script --scope="@automattic/your-package"
```

## Developing packages

When developing packages in Calypso repository that external consumers (like Jetpack repository) depend on, you might want to test them without going through the publishing flow first.

1. Enter the package you're testing
1. Run [`npm link`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/link) — the package will be installed on global scope and symlinked to the folder in Calypso
1. Enter the consumer's folder (such as Jetpack)

> 1. Type `npm link @automattic/package-name` — the package will be symlinked between Calypso and Jetpack and any modifications you make in Calypso, will show up in Jetpack.

Reviewer: Maybe add a note that if you're building with webpack, you may need to turn off [resolve.symlinks](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/resolve/#resolvesymlinks) for it to work as expected.

Author: Good point. Added in https://github.com/Automattic/wp-calypso/pull/32137/commits/b76f2641cd9f3eb9b2458cc60ea7e4c46691d594
